Name initial core team and add documentation about roles (#14)
jupyter-server/team-compass: docs/team/becoming-member.md

# Becoming a team member

## Team member responsibilities

Active team members actively carry out the responsibilities listed in the [Membership Guide Page](membership_guidelines).

## Active and inactive membership

There are two types of team members, **active** and **inactive**.

Active members:

* Must be nominated by a current team member.
* Can be elected as the Software Steering Council representative for Jupyter Server.
* Get a vote in a voting situation.
* Count towards quorum in a voting situation.

> * Expected to participate in a majority of the team votes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Are expected to participate in a majority of the team votes.
```

* Can nominate new team members.
* Should actively participate, either synchronously or asynchronously, in team meetings.

Inactive members:

> * Previously an active team member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Were previously an active team member
```

> * Were previously an active team member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Were previously an active team member.
```

> * Does not vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not vote.
```

* Are not counted towards voting quorum.
* Can "reactivate" at any time by expressing their change in status publicly.

> Team members can freely pass between active and inactive at any time. They *should* publicly state their status change in an issue or PR. A subsequent pull request will be made to this page to update their status.

Reviewer 2: Would it be more straightforward to just open a PR against the `contributors-jupyter-server.yaml` file and skip the interim "issue or PR"?
```suggestion
Team members can freely pass between active and inactive at any time. They *should* publicly state their status change in a pull request that updates the `contributors-jupyter-server.yaml` file with their status change.
```
(With a link to the file.)

> This means an inactive team member can "reactivate" themselves at any time by publically stating their change in status. This does not require a nomination from another team member.

Author: ```suggestion
This means an inactive team member can "reactivate" themselves at any time by publicly stating their change in status. This does not require a nomination from another team member.
```

> For example, a team member who is going out on a long leave/vacation can temporarily move to the inactive team during their absence and immediately reactivate upon return.

Reviewer 3: what would be considered a long leave or vacation? It might help to state the duration or some kind of minimum threshold. (e.g. anything longer than 2 or 3 weeks)

Author: Good question. Really, this is just a way for a team-member to say they wouldn't be available for any votes that arise during the period they are away. 

Since voting cycles are about 2 weeks long (based on Jupyter governance), 2 weeks is probably an appropriate duration to use here.

I'm not sure we need to be this technical, but perhaps this would be a good guide.

> For example, a team member who is going out on a long leave/vacation can temporarily move to the inactive team during their absence and immediately reactivate upon return.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, a team member who is going out on a long leave/vacation (>2 weeks) can temporarily move to the inactive team during their absence and immediately reactivate upon return. This isn't required, but this can relieve them from having to watch this repository for any formal votes that happen during their absence. 
```

## Nominating a new member

For someone to become a team member, they should already be a consistent,
positive, productive member of the community. Newcomers are encouraged to

> become team members, after they've shown a sustained interest in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
become team members after they've shown a sustained interest in
```

engaging with the community. Moreover, team members should be interested in

> **continuing their engagement** over a long-ish period of time, generally

Reviewer 2: Should probably quantify "long-ish"...  Perhaps one year?
```suggestion
**continuing their engagement** over a long-ish period of time (at least one year), generally
```

putting in more time and effort than non-team members. This doesn't have to
mean contributing code - it can be assisting others in forums/issues, reviewing
pull requests, participating in team meetings, etc.

> Any new team members must be nominated and championed by a pre-existing team member.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any new team members must be nominated and championed by an active team member.
```

This process takes the following steps:

> 1. The champion should first discuss internally with team members to get buy-
>    in and ensure that there's general consensus before officially starting
>    the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The champion should first discuss internally with team members to 
   ensure that there's general consensus before officially starting
   the process.
```

2. If there seems to be team consensus,

>    the champion contacts the potential new team member and ask if they are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the champion contacts the potential new team member and asks if they are
```
